---
title: Installation
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

Livewire has both a PHP component AND a Javascript component. You need to make sure both are available in your project before you can use it.

## Install the package {#install-package}
@code(['lang' => 'bash'])
@verbatim
composer require livewire/livewire
@endverbatim
@endcode

## Include The Assets {#include-js}
Add the following Blade directives in the `head` tag, and before the end `body`tag in your template.

@code
@verbatim
<html>
<head>
    ...
    @livewireStyles
</head>
<body>
    ...
    @livewireScripts
</body>
</html>
@endverbatim
@endcode

Livewire will load its JavaScript assets from the relative root. For example, here's the `<script>` tag that will be generated by default:

@code
<script src="/livewire/livewire.js?id=123456789"></script>
@endcode

If your app's root isn't the domain root, for example `http://yourapp.com/admin`, the Livewire assets won't load because they would need the following script tag url:

@code
<script src="http://yourapp.com/admin/livewire/livewire.js?id=123456789"></script>
@endcode

To fix this, you can optionally pass in a `asset_url` option to the `@livewireScripts` directive like so:

@code(['lang' => 'php'])
@verbatim
@livewireScripts(['asset_url' => 'http://yourapp.com/admin']);
@endverbatim
@endcode

## Publishing Assets {#publish-assets}

If you prefer the JavaScript assets to be served by your web server not through Laravel, use the `vendor:publish` command:

@code(['lang' => 'bash'])
@verbatim
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=livewire:assets
@endverbatim
@endcode

To keep the assets up-to-date and avoid issues in future updates, we **highly recommend** adding the command to the `post-autoload-dump` scripts in your `composer.json` file:

@code(['lang' => 'json'])
@verbatim
{
    "scripts": {
        "post-autoload-dump": [
            "Illuminate\\Foundation\\ComposerScripts::postAutoloadDump",
            "@php artisan package:discover --ansi",
            "@php artisan vendor:publish --force --tag=livewire:assets --ansi"
        ]
    }
}
@endverbatim
@endcode

## Publishing The Config File {#publishing-config}

Livewire aims for "zero-configuration" out-of-the-box, but some users require more configuration options.

You can publish Livewire's config file with the following artisan command:

@code(['lang' => 'bash'])
@verbatim
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=livewire:config
@endverbatim
@endcode

Here are the configurable options contained in this config file:

@table
Config Name | Default Value | Description
--- | --- | ---
class_namespace | `'App\\Http\\Livewire'` | The folder to look for Livewire classes.
view_path | `resource_path('views/livewire')` | The folder to look for Livewire component views.
asset_url | `null` | The url to load the Livewire JavaScript assets from.
middleware_group | `'web'` | The middleware group that is applied every time a Livewire component is updated.
@endtable
